# ECON860_final

Under the ECON860_final file, run that code. I used kmeans and kmedoids to show that this data can be clustered into three personalities. Both gave similar results, showing in the graphs.
For section f, one can use linear or logistic regression to find the math ability of the individuals. The prediction variable shows the math ability prediction for the individuals in the testing index. The ones with the highest predicted score are the ones with the most math ability. A CSV of the linear regression can be found in prediction.csv
For section g, the linear regression should provide a better prediction due to the fact that the outcome is a continuous variable.
For section h, I would choose questions #3,4,5,6,7,11,12,14,15,21,22,23,24,25,26,28,32,34,35, and 39. According to the linear regression, these questions have the highest absolute value on determining the math ability of the individual. The way they answer these questions, from 1 to 5, multiplied by the coefficient will determine their math score
For section i, one can use Factor Analysis. The first 20 questions are used to determine the personality. Instead of focusing only on math ability, the top overall scores in the Factor Analysis should be chosen instead. These can be found in the FactorAnalysis CSV file.
BONUS: Yes, the answers to the questionaire themselves can be used to predict the math ability of an individual. This can be accomplished in the linear regression. Simply multiply the answer by the coefficient given in the slope and add each question's value together to get the individual's math ability.
